So landmark elements,
kind of similar to headings.
Headings are used more.
In all of the feedback I've heard
from people who use screen readers,
headings are used a lot of the time.
Everyone's different, of course,
but landmark elements
are technically a best practice.
One of the things in the X Extension
that if you turn best practices off,
any rules related to landmark
elements will be excluded.
They're nice to have and you absolutely
should include landmarks because why not?
Just know that if you only have time
to prioritize one over the other,
put headings at the top of your list,
but landmarks are great.
There are things you create in your
templates that you kinda just set it and
forget it mostly.
If you aren't editing templates or
views that are for bigger sections of
your pages all the time,
you might not even see these elements,
components might get flooded
into these landmarks.
When I opened up the Accessibility
Insights extension earlier,
we had things for headings and
landmarks, so just to refresh there.
So we have nav, main, section, header,
footer, aside, and
there are some rules with these.
So certain landmark elements need
to be what's called top level.
Main is one,
I think a side is another one.
So you can't nest main inside of nav or a
side, that one's a little bit surprising.
That one has to be top level, kind of
like as a sibling to your main element.
>> When to check if results
of aXe are a false positive?
I'm always confused about landmarks, and
specifically about role equal groups
that sometimes are used on list items
results that display as a result.
>> Okay, so
the question is about aXe results, so
a lot of these things will
come up in aXe results.
I'm gonna turn this Landmarks thing off.
So the question was about when to
know about Landmark element results.
So if you're not working
on best practices,
if you have to prioritize,
you have a lot of feedback,
turn those off, fix them later,
maybe come back to them.
If you are trying to fix them
because you have bandwidth,
it's the appropriate time what have you,
read through what it's telling you.
So sometimes it will be reporting
that there are roles and
elements that there shouldn't be,
like for lists, those have default roles.
So we have lists here, UL, and
OL and LI for the list items.
Those have roles built in,
a lot of these do.
That's kind of the overlap that we haven't
totally discussed yet of ARIA and HTML,
is that what makes them semantic is that
they have meaning, whereas divs don't.
And so lists have roles, so, if you
are putting a role of region on one,
I think what aXe might
be telling you is that,
you could put the region role
on a div that wraps the list.
So that the list keeps its semantic
roles without us overwriting them.
So that could be one thing,
if I'm following the question.
So one other note about section and
nav, anything that you've repeated.
And we've actually seen this already,
just kind of in the rendered
result of what we have in these slides,
is that I have two navs,
and I put an ARIA label on those so
that you could tell which one's which.
Cuz especially when you open up
a voiceover in the rotor, I think it won't
even show section elements if
they don't have labels on them.
But if it was just section, section,
section, section, that's like the new div.
[LAUGH] So they've learned kind of
through, practice of evaluating a lot
of web pages that sections that aren't
labeled are kind of treated as divs.
So if you want them to actually be
sectioning elements that come up in
the screen reader as major sectioning
sign posts, you can label them.
And if you are worried about
ARIA label getting out of date,
cuz sometimes those
strings just get set and
forgotten, you could use aria-labelledby,
it's really similar.
But instead of taking a string value for
a label,
you can point it at another element,
like a heading.
So if you have a piece of
content inside of the landmark,
aria-labelledby is pretty great for
labeling, cuz you can just sort of double
up on content that is visible,
that won't get out of date.
So that's one technique I
would recommend for landmarks.
So lists, they're awesome,
don't sleep on using those
because if you have groups of items,
like lists of links.
You can nest lists, they're great
because they automatically count in
a screen reader, it'll say,
list, five items.
There is one gotcha in Safari and
VoiceOver that I have to tell you about.
Safari, again in there,
heuristics of how web pages
are actually written out in the wild.
They've made a counteraction of, if lists
have their lists style removed with CSS,
there's no dot, or
what do they they call that, a marker,
they will actually not call it
out as a list in a lot of cases.
So if you see lists with role list
bolted on, that might be why,
is because you can get Safari to
treat it as a list, no matter what,
if you bolt that list back,
or the roll back on.
So I have an article if you're like,
what, what is she talking about?
[LAUGH] There's a link here,
where Safari might need a little help.
Scott O'Hara did us a solid and wrote
a really great article on this problem.
So if you do use Safari and
VoiceOver, a lot and you're like,
why are my lists not announcing as lists,
that might be why.
And speaking of aXe results, something
that might come up is that lists have
rules, that they can only have
list items as direct descendants.
So if you have divs mixed in with
your list items as siblings,
you might get some failures in aXe,
cuz it I think it messes up
the counting of the lists.
So, that's something I've
seen where the markup,
maybe we don't check it often enough,
like what is our framework rendering?
Sometimes the frameworks will complain,
too, which really helps us out so
we can catch the stuff earlier.
But I think with all of this,
especially if you're using a framework
to build your UIs,
look at what it's spinning out,
[LAUGH] what actually gets rendered,
cuz that can be very eye-opening.
So forms are a huge part of this.
There's some really powerful elements for
accessibility, starting with the form tag.
Within a form tag if you've
built anything for the web,
you've probably worked with
a lot of these elements.
Field sets and legends are awesome.
You can group form controls together and
give them a group name with a legend,
and you can style those.
I think legend you might be able to make
screen reader only, I'd have to go and
double-check.
But the big thing, the big story with form
controls is that they have to be labeled,
or else, where do you even
filling in if you can't see it?
What does this checkbox do?
Can I opt out of your newsletter?
Everyone should be like,
no, we have to label that,
nobody wants extra newsletters, right?
So we need to label every control.
Extensions like aXe and WAVE and
Accessibility Insights are really
great at pointing that out.
If something went wrong or you missed it
somehow, there's two ways to label them.
So for a form input, you can use the for
attribute on the label.
In React it's HTML4, because JSX and
HTML and JavaScript are all mixed up.
So to make sure that the compiler knows
we're talking about the label for
in React, it is the HTML for,
and then the ID.
It will match that label and the input or
select, whatever form control it is.
It will say these two are joined, and
it will then expose that label as
the name for that form control.
Implicit is just when you have
a label element that wraps an input.
The label text will apply to that
input as well, it's pretty easy.
And they're getting easier to style, thank
goodness, [LAUGH] we really needed that.
And then one note about labeling and
naming,
only certain elements can be labeled
with things like ARIA label.
So that question about the role region,
I think even on the SoundCloud
site that we tested earlier,
there might have been an aXe result for
ARIA label not being like you
can't use it on certain elements.
I think it's limited to role of image.
What I tend to do for
that type of thing if I'm like,
can I label that element, I'll go and
pull up that ARIA specification.
Let's go do that real quick as a practice.
So ARIA 1.2, let's say I wanted to look
up ARIA label, I'm just gonna search for
it real quickly and then the first
mention of it I can click on.
So it will tell me what it is,
and then what elements I can use it on.
And so this process of checking,
where can I use it usually can be helpful.
I'm actually not really seeing what I was
looking for here, but whenever you're
going to use something, it would be worth
going and doing a search to make sure.
Your tooling will probably
also complain at you,
which is helpful like, hey, you put
an ARIA label on a div, you can't do that.
Okay, thank you, tool,
thank you for telling me.
So those are some of
the practices that I use.
I'll look at MDN,
Mozilla Developer Network,
I'll look at ARIA if I'm wanting
to go check up on something.
Buttons and links are a huge one,
somehow these are the most basic
elements that we managed to screw up.
I didn't know about them either, I mean
I put click events on divs just like
everyone else in the beginning, then I
learned how awesome the HTML button is.
So it's focusable for free,
it has a built-in role, and you can put
a click event on it and it will work
from the keyboard, a div will not.
Links are also awesome,
they have built-in behavior like history.
They need an href attribute to
be reachable with the keyboard.
So sometimes things that are,
have an onClick but not an href,
those links will not be accessible, so
just so you know that little detail.
And this is kind of the big
thing with buttons and links.
Buttons toggle things,
interactive things in your interface,
launching modals that are not deep-linked,
maybe they toggle a setting or something.
Links navigate, so if there's anything
that needs to take you to a location,
if you can use an anchor link,
that's gonna be the best choice.
And what I hear about the most for this
is sort of an anecdote to think about is
when, blind people call support, or
anyone who's using navigating by voice.
When they call customer support to get
help with an online product or service,
and they have someone talk
them through how to use it.
If the links don't look like links and
the buttons don't look like buttons, or
they're not coded that way,
it can get pretty confusing.
So, we try to make links look like
links and buttons look like buttons.
That can get pretty tricky,
cuz CTAs as we call them, calls to action,
they all look like buttons.
Or the buttons look like links, and
it's kind of just we do the best we can.
Just know that those work and they're
accessible if we use them the right way.
So then lastly, the last one I wanna
mention here is details and summary.
So this is like a built-in accordion
widget, they're keyboard accessible.
They work pretty well and
you get default elements,
be sure to test your
implementation to make sure.
But they're awesome.
If you don't already know about details
in summary, they're pretty great.
So sort of an overview of the elements
that you should definitely try
to use if you can.
Sure, question?
>> Have you used the HTML5
dialogue element?
>> Yes.
>> For doing modals?
Would you recommend that or
would you recommend not using that?
>> I would recommend it, yeah, so the
dialogue element, and really it should be
on this list, maybe I'll add it, but
it has a dialogue role built in.
It has the open and close APIs,
like that is definitely an example
of something that's built in.
I think with some of these
implementations, we have to go and
check, are they really accessible?
Another one that comes to mind
is the default date picker.
I actually haven't had an example of that
earlier and we didn't dig into it very
much, but sometimes we are like,
great, there is a default thing.
Some of these newer components
that haven't quite caught on,
they're part of the reason might be that
they're not totally cross-platform stable.
So we wanna go and check, for the dialogue
I think it works reasonably well.
I think there might have been
some consensus building on,
what focus should be sent into
automatically when it opens.
I think that was a sticking point,
if I remember correctly, but
I think it should work reasonably well,
would be a good thing to test.